---
alias: 
tags: cybsec cisco ise sise course network identity profiling best_practice reporting
---

Implementing the Profiling service in Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE) helps you solve one of the main security issues that network administrators face today: lack of endpoint visibility. Lack of endpoint visibility puts your entire network at risk. Endpoints are prime attack targets because they often contain sensitive information and are unpatched and vulnerable. As more endpoints and types of endpoints access your network resources, your network attack surface exponentially expands. The ISE Profiler service provides dynamic detection and classification of endpoints connected to the network. Classification makes it easier to grant and maintain the appropriate access to your network, which, in turn, greatly improves overall network security.

This training provides you with best practices for implementing the Profiler service within an ISE deployment, including best practices for planning your deployment and selecting the most suitable probes for your implementation.

This training introduces profiling best practices. It includes examples and review questions that allow you to test your knowledge and understanding.

The Profiler service is a powerful ISE tool that can enhance your security and reduce the workload on your IT security staff. However, understanding which probes to deploy can be a challenge. This training enables you to meet that challenge by assessing the various probes and providing criteria for probe selection.

By the end of this training, you will be able to plan your deployment, list the criteria for selecting probes, and select the appropriate probes for your implementation. You will also be able to list the probes that should be avoided if possible and explain how to minimize processing overhead that can be caused by profiler data. Finally, you will be able to explain how the embedded software standard Manufacturer Usage Description (MUD) is used to enforce authorization policies for difficult-to-profile IoT devices.