---
aliases:
  - Create Cisco ISE Profiling Reports
tags:
  - cybsec
  - cisco
  - ise
  - sise
  - course
  - network
  - identity
  - profiling
  - best_practice
  - reporting
---

# Overview
In this lab, you will run reports that focus on profiling data. You will run profiler feed reports, endpoint profile changes, and summary reports. You will also view home page dashlet reports.
# Pre-Lab Activity
Determine the name of the pod that you are using.

### Step 1

From the Admin-PC, open PuTTY and connect to the pod switch (10.10.10.3).

### Step 2

Log into the switch with the username **admin** and the password **1234QWer**.

### Step 3

Note the hostname listed at the prompt. The last two fields of the hostname indicate the pod that you are using. The example is taken from pod “PG00-P01.”

Remember your pod number, you will need it for testing.

## Generate Data for Cisco ISE Profiler

In this task, you will generate some profiler data to examine in the later tasks.

### Step 4

To connect the Client-PC to the wireless and wired networks, log in to the client PC with the username **student1** and the password **1234QWer**.

### Step 5

Click on the network icon in the Windows taskbar and connect to your pod guest WLAN. The guest WLAN will have the name **PGxx-Pyy-Guest**, where the **xx** equals your pod group and the **yy** equals your pod within the pod group, discovered in the pre-lab activity.

## Note

(If the icon is missing from the taskbar enter “wifi” into the windows search bar and select “Change Wi-fi Settings”. From that window select “Show Available Networks”.)

### Step 6

After connecting to the pod guest network, open the Firefox browser and navigate to an external website, such as [https://](https://www.cisco.com)[www.cisco.com](https://www.cisco.com). You will be redirected to the guest portal.

### Step 7

At the guest portal login page, enter the username **employee1@abc.public** and the password **1234QWer**.

### Step 8

Read the Acceptable Use Policy (AUP), check the box to agree to the terms and conditions, and then click **Sign On** to sign into the network.

You will be redirected to the original website that you entered. Close the browser when you are done.

## Note

Capture of the client browser’s User-Agent occurs automatically and does not require the HTTP probe be explicitly enabled. The capture does require that the device/user responds to the form in the web portal. Redirection to the portal alone is not sufficient to capture and update the User-Agent in the endpoint record.

### Step 9

In the search field on the Windows taskbar, type **view network connections** and select the corresponding option from the search results.

### Step 10

In the Network Connections window, right-click the Wi-Fi interface and select **Disable**.

### Step 11

In the Network Connections window, right-click the Ethernet0 2 interface and select **Enable**.

When prompted, sign into the network with the username **employee1@abc.public** and the password **1234QWer**.

### Step 12

Verify connectivity by opening the Firefox browser and navigating to an external website, such as **https://www.cisco.com**. Your connection should be successful.

### Step 13

From the Admin-PC, open PuTTY and connect to the pod switch (10.10.10.3).

### Step 14

Log in using the username **admin** and the password **1234**QWer.

### Step 15

Enter the following commands to perform a shutdown and no shutdown on interfaces GigabitEthernet 1/0/1 and GigabitEthernet 1/0/3. Resetting the interfaces will cause any MAC Authentication Bypass (MAB) clients to reauthenticate and send profiler attributes to Cisco ISE.

C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy#**configure terminal**
C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy(config)#**interface GigabitEthernet 1/0/1**
C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy(config-if)#**shut**
C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy(config-if)#**no shut**
C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy(config-if)#**interface GigabitEthernet 1/0/3**
C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy(config-if)#**shut**
C3560-CX-PGxx-Pyy(config-if)#**no shut**

### Step 16

Close the puTTY window when you have completed resetting the interfaces.

## Run Cisco ISE Profiler Feed Reports

In this task, you will run reports that show how the profiler data that ISE uses to identify devices may have changed.

### Step 17

From the Admin-PC, open the Firefox browser and connect to the Cisco ISE admin portal by clicking the bookmark in the browser toolbar.

Alternatively, you can navigate to **https://ise-1.abc.public**.

### Step 18

Log in to the admin portal with the username **admin** and the password **1234QWer**.

### Step 19

From the ISE admin portal, navigate to **Work Centers > Profiler > Feeds**.

### Step 20

Because the lab environment has been restored from a saved snapshot that may be several months old you will need perform an update to the profiler database. Initiate the update by clicking the Update Now button in the Enable Online Subscription Update section of the window. It will take a minute or two for the update to complete.

### Step 21

In the Latest Update section, note the date on which the latest applied feed occurred.

### Step 22

To run the Change Configuration Audit report from the feed service administration page, click the **Go to Update Report Page** link in the Latest Update section.

The report opens in a new browser tab and shows the objects in the profiler database that have been added or modified.

(This task is an academic excercise. Our database is small enough that if the update completes before you run the report there will be no changes to report on. If this happens you can navigate to **Operations > Reports > Reports > Audit > Change Configuration Audit**. In the report, scroll to the Object Type column and enter the word "feed" to filter the report field. Click the Event hyperlink "Changed Configuration" to view a summary of the modified properties performed during the update process.)

### Step 23

Observe the details of the **Added** and **Changed configuration** events initiated by the internal feed.

Notice the number of new or updated manufacturer OUI objects that Cisco ISE uses to identify various endpoints.

### Step 24

Click one of the **Added configuration** event hyperlinks and observe the details, paying specific attention to any **Object Names** and the data in the **Modified Properties**.

### Step 25

Close the detail browser tab and return to the **Change Configuration Audit** browser tab.

### Step 26

Click one of the **Changed configuration** event hyperlinks and observe the details for that event.

The Change Configuration Audit report that you have just inspected allows for the administrator to view and verify updates to the profiler data that is updated via the feed service. If an update were to create a change in how certain endpoints are profiled, you can look at the latest update to see if the endpoint in question was affected by that update. If the update caused a device to not profile as was expected, you could then determine which profiler data was used, and make manual profiler policy entries that are more specific to match the endpoint to the correct profiler policy rules.

### Step 27

Close the **Configuration Audit Detail** browser tab and then close the **Change Configuration Audit** report tab and return to the Cisco ISE admin tab.

## Run Endpoint Profile Change Report

In this task, you will run reports on endpoints that have been profiled by Cisco ISE.

### Step 28

From the Cisco ISE admin page on the Admin-PC, navigate to **Work Centers > Profiler**, click the **More** drop-down menu and select **Reports**.

Alternatively, you can also reach this page by navigating to **Operations > Reports.**

### Step 29

In the Report Selector pane, navigate to **Reports > Profiler Reports > Endpoint Profile Changes**.

### Step 30

Using the drop-down menus, set up the report using a **Time Range** that is **exactly (or equals)** the value of the **Last 7 Days** and click the **Go** button.

The resulting graphs provide a quick big-picture view of the types of endpoints that are connected to your network over a time period.

### Step 31

Compare the **Endpoint Profile (Before)** pie chart to the **Endpoint Profile (After)** pie chart and observe the additional data that results from enabling profiling.

You may not notice a very large number of differences in the lab but note that the cisco-router and vmware-device categories have changed over the 7 days.

### Step 32

Scroll down to the **Endpoint Profile Changes** table to view a list of any endpoint profile changes that have been made during the period that was indicated.

As new profiler data is received from the network, or as the profiler policy configuration is updated by the feed service or an administrator, endpoints that have been dynamically profiled can match different policies as indicated in the table.

### Step 33

Click the **Windows10-Workstation** record to see which probe caused a change. The Profiler History opens in a new browser tab.

At the bottom of the report, observe the different profiler events that indicate profiler data was received, causing the profiler service to reevaluate the endpoint, and whether the reevaluation caused the endpoint to match a different endpoint profile.

Notice that the **Windows10-Workstation** endpoint was originally profiled as an Asus device (based on the OUI in the MAC address). At some point, profiler data was received that caused the endpoint to match the Windows10-Workstation profile. This behavior is a normal progression that is expected.

### Step 34

Close the **Profiler History** browser tab and return to the W**ork Centers > Profiler > Reports** page.

### Step 35

In the Report Selector pane, choose **Profiled Endpoint Summary**. The report opens in a new browser tab.

### Step 36

In the Profiled Endpoints Summary report, at the top of the Logged At column, choose the time range of **Last 7 Days** from the drop-down menu.

Notice that the table shows the source of the profiler data that was used to match the endpoint profile that was used.

### Step 37

Click the **Details** link for one of the records and explore the available output.

### Step 38

From Profiled Endpoint Summary page, click the **Raw Log** link and explore the available output.

### Step 39

Close any pop-ups or newly opened tabs and return to the Cisco ISE admin portal when you are finished.

## Run Context Visibility Dashlet Reports

In this task, you will view the metrics available via the Context Visibility feature of Cisco ISE.

### Step 40

From the Cisco ISE admin page on the Admin-PC, navigate to **Context Visibility > Endpoints** and click the **Endpoint Classification** tab.

### Step 41

In the **Endpoints** dashlet, click the new window icon to detach and open the dashlet in a new browser tab.

### Step 42

In the new Endpoints dashlet tab, click the **Profile** link to observe all profiled endpoint categories that ISE has seen.

### Step 43

Hover your mouse over any individual section of the circle graph to see the number of devices per that category.

### Step 44

Close the Endpoints browser tab when you have finished observing the details.

### Step 45

Navigate to **Dashboard > Summary**.

Notice that the Dashboard page displays the same Endpoints dashlet as the Context Visibility page. You can customize the Context Visibility and Dashboard pages to meet your needs. You can add new dashboards, or dashlets, by clicking the gear icon in the upper-right corner of the pane.

### Step 46

Close all newly opened tabs and return to the Cisco ISE admin portal when you have finished.