---
alias: Integrate Cisco ISE with Active Directory
tags: cybsec cisco ise sise course network identity policy_enforcement AD active_directory integration
---

# Integrate Cisco ISE with Active Directory

In this discovery, you will integrate Cisco ISE with Microsoft Active Directory (AD). First, you will perform a native integration of Cisco ISE to Active Directory and then populate the Cisco ISE dictionary with Active Directory groups and attributes. Finally, you will configure an LDAP integration and populate the Cisco ISE dictionary with LDAP groups and attributes.

> Note
> Due to the size of the Cisco ISE databases, the lab may take 10-15 minutes to initialize. Please be patient.

You are using a **US English** keyboard layout. This cannot be changed once the lab has initialized.  
Change Keyboard Layout

 Visit [Device Help](https://client.certsite.net/help/devices/index.html) for info about changing the OS keyboard layout and screen resolution after lab initialization.

---

## You may navigate away from this page once you begin initializing the lab.

You will be notified once the devices are ready.

Initialize

# Configure Active Directory Integration

In this task, you will configure Cisco ISE to integrate with Microsoft Active Directory. You will then configure the Active Directory group and user attributes for use in later labs.

In the first few steps, you will join ISE to Microsoft Active Directory.

## Step 1

Access the Cisco ISE administration interface by opening Firefox and navigating to **https://ise-1.abc.public** or by clicking the browser toolbar shortcut that the lab team has provided.

## Step 2



Log in to the Cisco ISE GUI with the username **admin** and password **1234QWer**; then use the main menu to navigate to **Work Centers > Network Access > Overview**.

## Step 3



From the menu on the left, choose **Introduction** and then under **1. Prepare, Identity Stores**, click the **External Identity Stores** link.

## Step 4

In the left pane, under **External Identity Sources**, click **Active Directory**, and then click **Add** from the toolbar.

## Step 5



Enter **abc.public** in both the **Join Point Name** and the **Active Directory Domain** fields. Then click **Submit**.

## Step 6

In the pop-up window, click **Yes** to join all ISE nodes to this Active Directory domain.

## Step 7



In the Join Domain dialog box, perform the following items and click **OK** when complete:

- Use the credentials of username: **Administrator** and password: **1234QWer**.
    
- Check the **Specify Organization Unit** check box.
    
- Modify the DN value to match the following: **OU=ISE,OU=HCC,DC=ABC,DC=PUBLIC**
    

> Note
> You can optionally specify the location where the Cisco ISE computer account(s) will be created instead of using the default Computers container. If used, the Organizational Unit must be pre-created. Cisco ISE will not create an Organizational Unit structure in Active Directory to match what is entered here.

## Step 8

Click **OK**.

## Step 9

When the process has been completed, click the **Close** button.

In the next few steps, you will run diagnostic tools.

## Step 10

Click the **ise-1.abc.public** node from the list.

## Step 11



From the toolbar, click **Diagnostic Tool**.

## Step 12

Observe the different test names. Note that some tests are external, referenced by the join point abc.public, and some are internal, referenced by the join point system.

## Step 13



Click the **Run Tests Now** button.

The test may take a few seconds to run.

## Step 14



After the tests are completed, notice that the status of each test is successful.

Optionally, click **View Test Details** from the toolbar to view a text-based output report. You can copy data from this output and use it as a baseline to compare against in the future.

> Note
> You may also click any of the **Result** and **Remedy** hyperlinks for the test-specific output.

## Step 15

Scroll down and click **Close**.

In the next few steps, you will add Active Directory attributes to the Cisco ISE dictionary.

## Step 16



In the left pane of sources, under Active Directory, click **abc.public** and then click the **Groups** tab.

## Step 17



Click the **+Add** button on the toolbar and choose **Select Groups from Directory**.

## Step 18

Cisco ISE has expanded the filter capabilities in selecting groups from Active Directory. Leave the Type Filter as **All** and click the **Retrieve Groups…** button.

Observe the list and notice there are many groups that likely would not be applicable for policy matching in Cisco ISE.

## Step 19

Next, change the **Type** **Filter**. Use the drop-down to click **GLOBAL** and click the **Retrieve Groups…** button.

The resulting list is now likely more appropriate for policy usage.

## Step 20



Even when selecting just the GLOBAL groups, there are several groups that you will not need Cisco ISE to know about for network access. Click only the following groups to use in the Cisco ISE configuration, and then click **OK**.

- abc.public /Builtin/HelpDesk
- abc.public/Builtin/NetAdmin
- abc.public/Builtin/Nurses
- abc.public /HCC/Groups/contractors
- abc.public /HCC/Groups/employees
- abc.public /Users/Domain Admins
- abc.public /Users/Domain Computers
- abc.public /Users/Domain Users
    

## Step 21

Click **OK**.

## Step 22

Click the **Attributes** tab.

## Step 23

Click the **+Add** button on the toolbar and choose **Select Attributes from Directory**.

## Step 24

In the Sample User or Machine Account text box, enter **employee2** and click the **Retrieve Attributes…** button.

## Step 25

Scroll through the list and click **badPwdCount** and **userPrincipalName** and then click **OK**.

The attributes are shown alphabetically in the list.

> Note
> Only set attributes will be shown. If one account does not have an attribute such as Job Title or Department set and a different account does, it will show those attributes when retrieving attributes from the account with the attribute set. An attribute could be set after this list is pulled, and if that user has queried again the additional attribute will show in the list.

## Step 26

Scroll down and click **Save**.

Cisco ISE can perform various methods of testing user authentication to Active Directory. You will explore this feature in the next few steps.

## Step 27

In the left pane of sources, under Active Directory, click **abc.public**.

## Step 28

In the right pane, check the ISE node **ise-1.abc.public** check box.

## Step 29

Click **Test User** from the toolbar.

## Step 30

Change the Authentication Type to **Lookup**.

## Step 31

Enter the username **employee1**.

## Step 32

Click the **Test** button.

## Step 33



Observe the output shown under the **Authentication Result** tab. Be sure to scroll down to view the Processing Steps section. Then click the **Groups** and **Attributes** tabs and observe the details there as well.

## Step 34

For the next test, change the Authentication Type to **Kerberos**.

## Step 35

In the password field, enter **1234QWer**.

## Step 36

Click the **Test** button.

## Step 37



Observe the output shown under the **Authentication Result** tab. Be sure to scroll down to view the Processing Steps section and notice that the Authentication Ticket (TGT) requests succeeded and that the next two line items indicate Kerberos success.

## Step 38

For the next test, change the Authentication Type to **MS-RPC**.

## Step 39

Click the **Test** button.

## Step 40



Observe the output shown under the **Authentication Result** tab. Be sure to scroll down to view the Processing Steps section to verify that the RPC Logon request succeeded.

## Step 41

Close the test user authentication pop-up window.

# Configure LDAP Integration

In this task, you will configure Cisco ISE to integrate with LDAP. You will then configure the LDAP group and user attributes for use in later labs.

In the first few steps, you will configure LDAP as an external identity source.

## Step 42

If you are not already there, navigate to **Work Centers > Network Access > Ext ID Sources**.

## Step 43

In the left pane, click **LDAP** and then click **+Add** in the toolbar.

## Step 44

Configure the following parameters:

- In the Name field, enter **LDAP_abc_public**.
    
- In the Description field, enter **abc.public LDAP configuration**.
    
- In the drop-down for Schema, click **Active Directory**.
    

## Step 45



Click the **Connection** tab and configure the following parameters:

- In the Hostname/IP field for the Primary Server, enter **ad.abc.public**.
    
- For Access, click the **Authenticated Access** radio button.
    
- In the Admin DN field enter: **cn=administrator,cn=users,dc=abc,dc=public**. Because the field limits the number of characters displayed, use the arrow keys to move the cursor to verify what you have entered.
    
- In the Password field, enter **1234QWer**.
    

## Step 46

Scroll back to the top of the pane and click the **Directory Organization** tab.

## Step 47

To the right of the **Subject Search Base**, click the **Naming Contexts** button.

This step will use the previously entered admin DN login information to perform a lookup search on the LDAP directory. A list of suggested subtrees will be provided based on this lookup.

## Step 48



Click **DC=abc,DC=public** from the list, and then click **OK**.

Note that you may have to scroll to the bottom of the list.

## Step 49

Perform the same operation for the group **Search Base** field, choosing **DC=abc,DC=public** from the list.

Because you will not be using LDAP for MAC address lookups, leave the search pattern as is.

## Step 50

From the top of the pane, click the **Connection** tab again.

## Step 51

Scroll down and click the **Test Bind to Server** button.

## Step 52



Observe that the test ran successfully. Note the response time. Test again and note the response time for future comparison. The first test response time may be higher than subsequent tests because of ARP.

## Step 53

Click **Submit** at the bottom to save the configuration.

In the last few steps, you will add LDAP attributes to the Cisco ISE dictionary.

Active Directory is fast, and Cisco ISE has a direct tie to the Active Directory. But if Cisco ISE gets disconnected from the domain for any reason (NTP issues, ACLs) and Active Directory is the only identity database that is being used, your network would experience serious authentication issues. For this reason, it is a good practice to back up your Active Directory integration with LDAP. LDAP is a more traditional client/server model that does not have the same NTP issues and does not have as many ports and protocols required. If your Active Directory is not reachable by standard means, Cisco ISE can use LDAP as a backup and still may be able to query the database.

## Step 54



From the **LDAP Identity Source** pane, click the blue hyperlink for **LDAP_abc_public** from the list. (You could also click the check box to the left of the name and click the **Edit** button above the list.)

## Step 55

Click the **Groups** tab.

## Step 56

Click the **+Add** button on the toolbar and choose **Select Groups from Directory**.

## Step 57

Accept the default filter **(*)** and click the **Retrieve Groups…** button.

## Step 58



Click **CN=HelpDesk,CN=Builtin,OU=HCC,DC=abc,DC=public** from the list, and then click **OK**.

The entries are listed alphabetically by first CN.

## Step 59

Click the **Attributes** tab.

## Step 60

Click the **+Add** button on the toolbar and choose **Select Attributes from Directory**.

## Step 61

In the Example Subject line, enter **CN=contractor1,OU=Users,OU=HCC,DC=abc,DC=public**

This field is case-sensitive, and there should be no spaces.

## Step 62

Click the **Retrieve Attributes…** button.

## Step 63



From the list of attributes, click **userPrincipleName**.

These entries may not be alphabetical. Scroll through the list to find the attribute.

## Step 64

Click **OK**.

## Step 65

Scroll to the bottom and click **Save**.

You have configured your pod Active Directory as an External Identity Source. This configuration will be utilized for authentication for both network access and device administration.